- [Instructor] The set interface is nearly identical
to the collection interface that we've studied.
However, it does have a few additional methods,
and its implementations have some unique behaviors.
To see these unique characteristics of a set,
let's walk through a few examples.
I'm going to start out by creating a set of rooms,
and I'm going to use a hash set
as the implementation for my set.
All right, let's go ahead, import the types,
and then I'm going to start adding rooms.
I'll first add Piccadilly, and then I'm going to add Oxford.
Now, I'm also going to add the same exact instance of Oxford
followed by a logically equivalent instance of Oxford
named Oxford Duplicate.
You can see that object here.
If we performed a value-based comparison
between these two objects,
they would be logically equivalent to each other.
Keep that in mind as we walk through the example.
Now, I'm also going to use a stream
in order to print out our room names.
So using a map, I can get the name of each room
and then I can use the For Each method
to print that to the console.
Okay, now, before I execute this code,
I want to show you one more thing.
In the room class, I've added some console output
within our Overridden Equals method.
It's just going to tell us more about the comparison
so that we can see what's happening with the set internally
as we execute this code, so let's check it out.
You'll notice that the equals method was invoked,
and that was for the comparison with
the logically equivalent instance of Oxford.
For these two objects, it's likely that
the equality operator was used,
and that's why we don't see equals invoked again.
Now you'll notice, we only have one instance of Oxford,
and that's because a set doesn't allow duplicates.
The other thing I'll call your attention to is the order.
The stream didn't iterate through the collection
in the order that the elements were inserted,
and that's because the hash set doesn't guarantee order.
If we wanted to maintain the insertion order
of our elements, we would have to switch over to
a linked hash set implementation.
So, watch what happens when I make that change.
Now, you can see Piccadilly,
which was inserted first into the set, prints out first.
Okay, now let's take a look at some of the new methods
that were added to the set interface.
I'm going to create a new set named Other Rooms,
and then I'm going to grab the set interface,
and we're going to use the Of method
to create an unmodifiable set.
So, this is a set that you can't change.
It can be helpful for thread safety
or sometimes for performance.
You'll notice that the Of method has several
overloaded forms where we can add up to
nine elements into the set,
and there's even a VAR args form of this as well.
Let's go ahead and use the overloaded form
that accepts two elements.
I'll pass Piccadilly into the method,
and then I'm also going to pass in Oxford.
Now, watch what happens when I try to change
our unmodifiable set.
If I use the Add method and try to place Victoria
into the set, if we execute the code,
you'll notice that an exception is thrown.
Let's check it out.
It's the unsupported operation exception.
So on the unmodifiable set,
you won't find any support for methods
that are going to change the collection.
So let's go ahead, we'll comment this out,
and then I want to show you another method.
So we'll come down here,
and I'm going to create a new set of rooms.
I'll call this More Rooms,
and then we're going to use the Copy Of method
on the set interface.
This creates an unmodifiable copy of a collection.
So let's go ahead and we'll pass in our Rooms collection.
And just like the other set that we created,
we can't perform any operations like an add or remove
that are going to change this set, but let's do this.
I'm going to change our stream
to use more rooms as its source.
So this is our unmodifiable set.
And let's first go, we can print out the elements
in that collection, and you'll notice we got
Oxford and Piccadilly.
Now I'm going to go ahead and add Victoria
into the collection that we copied.
Watch what happens now.
You'll notice that our unmodifiable set
is backed by the first collection that we copied.
So, you'll have to be aware of that
when working with an unmodifiable set.
So, that's a look at some of the recent additions
to the set interface and a few of its implementations.